	
Tibet USAID PROGRAM

Central Tibetan Administration Capacity Building and Sustainability Initiative
The Central Tibetan Administration Capacity Building and Sustainability Initiative (CTA-CBSI) is a five year, $14.55 million USAID-funded program implemented by the National Democratic Institute (NDI), in collaboration with the International City and County Management Association (ICMA). The project aims to support the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) to effectively and sustainably deliver services to Tibetans in a responsive and transparent manner, to help the community achieve long-term self-reliance.

Approach
●	Based on the principles of stakeholder led design, and in close partnership with the CTA’s Social and Resource Development Fund (SARD), NDI works with the CTA to identify policy and capacity building priorities and to engage in long-term planning and agenda-setting in the form of institutional strategic plans and departmental policies.
●	Provide financial and technical support to the CTA and its various departments to develop and implement strategic plans
●	Provide technical assistance to build CTA stakeholder capacity to operationalize policies, improve citizen
engagement and adopt modern and standardized management systems.
●	Help CTA transition to digitizing its processes, updating its databases and incorporating digital tools to promote more meaningful and effective citizen outreach. Build CTA’s institutional capacity on digital security with an emphasis on strengthening and maintaining information security.
●	Improve CTA responsiveness to citizen needs and priorities, through participatory consultations with citizens and inclusive policy development.
●	Assist the CTA in assessing its financing systems and methodology, with the long-term goal of self-reliance and a decreased reliance on donor funds.



 
Activity Overview of Year 1 and Year 2

Policy Prioritization and CTA Capacity Building
1)	Policy Prioritization
a)	Vision Paper: NDI assisted the Sikyong to develop a vision paper that articulates the Sikyong’s strategic vision and policy priorities for each department and the wider executive branch. The Sikyong will give a public address in April 2023 to officially launch the paper. Following the release of the vision paper, NDI will continue to support the Sikyong on the implementation and monitoring of policy priorities, providing technical support to the executive departments.
b)	Departmental Strategic Plan: Building on the Sikyong’s vision paper, NDI will assist the executive departments to develop strategic plans that align with the Sikyong’s priorities. Departments have previously conducted strategic planning exercises and NDI’s technical assistance will primarily focus on resource and feasibility analysis to help establish priorities and build strong, actionable implementation plans. Through the exercise, NDI will build the departments’ capacity to strategically align their goals with available resources, while enhancing the department staff’s abilities to design and implement programs that address the needs of the Tibetan people. Overall, the department strategic plan process will foster a whole of government approach that optimizes resource utilization and reduces departmental silos.
c)	Settlement Profiles: NDI supported the CTA to collect demographic, infrastructure and service delivery data from all 45 settlements throughout India. NDI/ICMA employed participatory research methods, training settlement camp leaders on data collection and methodology. The settlement staff and respective camp leaders facilitated the data collection through focus group discussions, which NDI/ICMA used to develop a settlement profile dashboard. Throughout Year 2, NDI/ICMA will transfer the dashboard ownership to SARD to institutionalize the data collection and management process within the CTA. The goal of the settlement profile dashboard is to provide CTA staff with readily available settlement data to inform more data-driven decision making in program design and implementation. Camp leaders will conduct data collection on an annual basis, ensuring the dashboard accurately reflects the current needs of Tibetan settlements.

2)	Capacity Development
a)	Support to the Public Service Commission (PSC): To build the training capacity of the PSC, NDI and ICMA, in collaboration with the PSC, conducted an organizational capacity assessment to examine the Commission’s current structure, processes and procedures and identify where targeted improvement is needed. Based on the assessment findings, NDI and ICMA are supporting the PSC to modify training programs and develop more robust and accessible training modules for CTA staff. NDI and ICMA are providing technical assistance to the PSC as they use the assessment finding to develop a CTA-wide training policy, which will be used to standardize staff onboarding procedures. The training policy will ensure that CTA training plans and programs align with CTA staffing and capacity needs to systematically improve the capacity of CTA staff.
 
b)	Capacity Building of SARD: As part of NDI’s effort to enhance SARD’s capacity, NDI has conducted skill building workshops on subgrant and project proposal development, branding and marking, and monitoring and evaluation. Over the last few months, NDI has worked with SARD to develop a strategic capacity building plan to address SARD’s biggest challenges. The first phase includes working with SARD to map their current processes and better understand the strengths and weaknesses of their current systems. NDI will then support SARD to adapt their systems to be more efficient, developing CTA-wide standard operating procedures for all donor-related processes, including program design, project proposal writing, budgeting, reporting, monitoring and evaluation and program management. The goal is for SARD to serve as a robust programmatic resource for CTA departments, ensuring a standard quality across all of the CTA’s donor deliverables.
c)	Capacity Building of the Women Empowerment Desk (WED)
NDI works closely with WED staff to strengthen WED’s capacity to advocate for incorporating gender considerations in CTA decision-making and operations. One of the primary tools that NDI has focused on is gender-sensitive budgeting. NDI collaborated with WED to conduct trainings for CTA staff in an effort to build long-term support for gender sensitive budgeting work within the CTA. NDI and WED hope to create provisions within the CTA budget for gender issues and bring gender into CTA’s development initiatives. Additionally, NDI’s gender experts are working with WED to strengthen their advocacy and campaign skills for more effective citizen engagement and outreach.
d)	Capacity Building of the Tibetan Computer Resource Center (TCRC): NDI is supporting TCRC to develop standardized operating procedures for the CTA’s digital initiatives, specifically focusing on digital security policies and procedures. NDI is coordinating with ZeroPoint, a Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL) implementer, on the digital security programming. While the initial plan was for NDI to continue Zeropoint’s work as their program closed, ZeroPoint’s program has now been extended for an additional year, leading to an increased need for close coordination in the space. In Year 2, NDI and Zeropoint will work with TCRC to develop a CTA-wide digital strategy. NDI will also work with TCRC to support the digitization requests of other departments, and implement training on addressing and combating mis-information and dis-information.

Technical Support
1)	Institutional Development Index (IDI)
The IDI indexes will inform department-level organizational capacity assessments that establish a baseline for key CTA processes and systems. The baseline organizational capacity assessments will lead to targeted organizational improvement plans that address departmental gaps in key management processes.
a)	Institutional Development Index - Human Resources (IDI-HR): ICMA is working with the PSC and Kashag secretariat of the CTA to develop and institutionalize a framework for benchmarking, planning and monitoring human resource-related processes. The IDI-HR framework will help the CTA identify areas of improvement in
 
the existing HR processes and set targets for process improvement, moving towards international human resource standards. Robust HR systems will support the development and growth of CTA staff, improving staff satisfaction and retention.
b)	Institutional Development Index - Database Management (IDI-DM): ICMA worked with TCRC to develop a framework for IDI-DM in an effort to map the departments’ data management practices and benchmark CTA processes against universal standards. ICMA has finalized the data collection and is working to analyze the results and produce department-specific data management reports. The reports will provide robust recommendations for improved data management, contributing towards more efficient and timely data delivery for evidence-based planning and monitoring.
2)	GIS mapping of settlements for optimized resource management: ICMA’s subgrantee, the Urban Management Centre (UMC), is supporting the CTA in Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping of Tibetan settlements in India. So far, five settlements have been mapped with plans to map an additional six in upcoming months. The GIS maps help the CTA have more informed infrastructure planning, optimizing their resource allocation and utilization for better service delivery to the Tibetan community .
3)	CTA Staff Satisfaction Survey: ICMA and NDI supported the Kashag to implement the first-ever staff satisfaction survey for CTA staff across Dharamshala, the settlements in India and Nepal, and 12 global offices of Tibet. The staff satisfaction survey will provide CTA leadership with a better understanding of staff satisfaction, and to provide feedback to the current Kashag to be more adaptive and responsive to staff needs.
4)	Livelihood generation and economic empowerment: To strengthen the economic livelihood of the Tibetan people in exile, ICMA is working with the Tibetan Chamber of Commerce and other relevant stakeholders on economic development and public-private-partnership models to generate CTA revenue.Through close interactions with relevant stakeholders in the CTA and Tibetan community, ICMA will identify schemes and initiatives that have the potential for long-term economic growth.
5)	Digitization: To optimize resource utilization, promote data sharing, and enhance efficiency and transparency, NDI and ICMA are supporting several digitization efforts identified by the CTA. These digitization efforts include digitizing the Green Book and CTA budget processes, developing digital learning portals, and establishing digital portals for data collection and management.

Citizen Engagement (Advocacy and Outreach)
1)	Assessing Citizen Needs and Priorities
a)	Gender: As part of its initiative to support and capacitate the WED of the CTA, NDI conducted a gender assessment of the Tibetan community to understand the needs and challenges of Tibetan women. Upon finalization of the gender assessment report, the findings from the report will be presented to the CTA.
b)	Youth: NDI conducted a youth needs assessment to understand the needs and challenges of Tibetan youth across the diaspora. The youth needs assessment report will highlight the major challenges faced by Tibetan youths and will present recommendations on how the CTA can effectively intervene to address their concerns.
2)	Communication & Outreach Strategy Development
 
a)	Town Hall: NDI has provided technical assistance to the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile (TPiE) and the CTA to develop more inclusive public consultation and effective outreach. Specifically, NDI supported a youth-focused town hall discussion where Tibetan parliamentarians briefed participants on youth-related initiatives in the 2022-2023 budget and fielded questions on the TPiE’s budgeting process. NDI will continue to provide support to the CTA to hold town halls and other citizen-centered events, with the goal of increasing transparency and responsiveness between the CTA and the Tibetan community.

SARD Subgrant
In addition to providing direct support to the CTA, NDI is managing a subgrant to SARD, in which NDI provides technical assistance to the CTA’s direct project implementation.. With SARD’s ownership and management of activities, the subgrant further develops SARD’s program design and project management skills, building their capacity to effectively engage with international donors to solicit necessary financial and logistical assistance for their ongoing initiatives. NDI and SARD coordinate in the design and planning of subgrant activities to ensure that the subgrant complements NDI’s direct funding.
